The 18th century was marked by confrontations between two great powers: France and Britain.
It was even described as a second Hundred Years’ War, where the aim was to possess a maximum number of colonies and products to guarantee economic wealth for the colonizer.

At the heart of this secular conflict: the American continent and, more specifically, North America, where French and British interests would clash.
There were no less than four conflicts between 1689 and 1763 that would always end up to the advantage of the British.
In 1763, at the end of the Seven Years’ War (1756-1763), it could even be said that, with the permanent loss of Canada, the French were driven out of the American continent.
This was a disaster for the French king, Louis XV.
The British appeared to be masters of the Atlantic.
Two million people lived in their Thirteen American Colonies, who played an active part in the final victory against the French and their Native American allies.

But ten years later, the British colonists would rise up against their king.
Why?
The rift between the British and Americans was initially for purely economic reasons.
The British settlers effectively refused the “executive” regime that boosted the economic prosperity of the mainland and not the colony.
This angered the Americans, who also had to pay more taxes without being consulted.
The number of incidents increased, like in Boston on March 15, 1770, when the “Redcoats” fired on protesters.
There was also the famous “Boston Tea Party” incident, where colonists dressed as “Red Indians” and threw the tea belonging to the East India Company overboard into Boston Harbor.
Political demands gradually overtook economic arguments.
Influenced by the philosophy of the Enlightenment, in 1774 in Philadelphia Benjamin Franklin and Patrick Henry became the leaders of the patriot party that demanded liberty from the tyrant George III, the British king.
The Americans gradually organized themselves.
In 1775, Washington was appointed commander-in-chief of the troops of the United Provinces of North America by the Continental Congress of Philadelphia.

For the French, this was an unexpected opportunity to take revenge against the British.
They isolated Britain diplomatically by signing an alliance with Spain.
France then supplied arms to the rebels.
The objective was not ideological, but strategic: to restore French predominance and to weaken their old British enemy.
France became officially involved in 1778.
