The American army included 380-400,000 black soldiers.
Roughly 200,000 were sent to France in 1918.
Most of them however were assigned to the Services of Supply, which included for example, equipment and food.

Racial segregation was deeply rooted in the American military.
The regiments were not mixed, and most of the black regiments were commanded by white officers.
They were considered to be unreliable and undisciplined.
Only 11% of the black American soldiers were incorporated into combat troops.

Moreover, General Pershing, commander-in-chief of the American army, sent a secret note to the French general staff advising caution where they were concerned.

However, the stance of the French army was the very opposite to that of its ally.
On the one hand, it needed soldiers after the bloodbaths of last few years.
On the other, colonial troops were already serving in the French army, including notably 180,000 black Africans.
The French recognized the value of these soldiers, who had proved themselves in the battles of Verdun and the Somme, among others.

Therefore, at the insistence of General Pétain, Pershing agreed to integrate black soldiers into the French army.
They would wear the French uniform as the “Harlem Hellfighters”.
The valor of these various regiments would be rewarded many times.

The 369th Infantry Regiment, which fought from April to November 1918, was awarded the French Croix de Guerre.
171 of these soldiers earned a personal mention.
Furthermore, on May 14, 1915 infantrymen Henry Lincoln Johnson and Needham Roberts managed to fend off a patrol of 24 German soldiers.
Here is also what French general Mariano Goybet said when the 157th division, comprising two black American regiments, the 371st and the 372nd in the Red Hand division, was disbanded:

>We have lived like brothers-in-arms for seven months, sharing (…), the same dangers; (…). The 157th division will never forget the magnificent energy and heroic drive of the black American troops (…).

But their bravery was very quickly forgotten in the United States.
Their participation in the First World War did not help them advance the issue of equal rights.

However, historical research now enables us to pay tribute to them and to uphold the memory of these brave soldiers and their devotion to duty.
