“The boy cannot escape me.”
The British General Lord Cornwallis was feeling confident in that summer of 1781.
The “boy”, i.e. young Lafayette, could not escape him.
With fewer than 1,000 men when Cornwallis had over 4,000 under his command, how could the young, green officer get the better of him in a territory three times the size of France?
But he wasn’t prepared for the cunning strategy devised by the Franco-American forces.
Cornwallis was unaware that his enemies had set a lethal trap which would lead to his downfall.

And it would play out over several acts.
The first act was written on May 21, 1781 when generals Washington and Rochambeau prepared a military operation that required perfect coordination between the land forces and the French navy.
The daring tactics were risky, but the stakes were critical.
The top secret plan was to convince the British, commanded by Clinton, that the allies would attack New York.
The impulsive Lafayette was to harrass Cornwallis further south in Virginia.
The young man from Auvergne cleverly avoided any staged battles, and a series of skirmishes undermined the morale of the British troops.
Clinton then sensed the trap.
He ordered Cornwallis to quickly retreat to Yorktown, a fortified town on the Chesapeake Bay.
The hunter Cornwallis was now the hunted, and the net was closing in.
The French navy under admiral de Grasse arrived in the bay on September 3 to prevent any escape by sea.
Several days later, a second fleet commanded by Barras de Saint-Laurent, who had fooled the British by sailing to New York, completed the blockade.
And now for the massive shock.
Clinton was powerless to act; he had been utterly fooled.
On September 28 over 15,000 French and Americans laid siege to Yorktown, held by 8,000 British.
They were subject to heavy fire for days.
On October 14 the patriots and their French allies, led by the French officer Charles de Lameth, removed the British redoubts with bayonets.
Lafayette personally captured a well-defended fort.
Cornwallis surrendered on October 18.
The British troops filed past their victors the following day to the sound of the French popular song “Le monde sens dessus dessous” (the world turned upside down).
Lafayette wrote to the French minister of war: “The play is over Count, and the fifth act has just ended.”
He would repeat the same thing to Napoleon some years later, when the latter was embroiled in similar war in Spain: “the greatest interests of the world were decided by skirmishes between patrols.”
