Relations between France and the United States deteriorated from the time of the American revolution.
They were so bad that, under the Presidency of John Adams, there was even a undeclared state of war between the two former allies.
Napoleon’s rise to power helped calm the situation.
Having a growing need for money and with inadequate naval forces, in 1803 he sold Louisiana to the United States for 15 million dollars (the amount at the time) under the Louisiana Purchase (France had owned this vast territory since the Treaty of San Ildefonso in 1801).
This operation doubled the territory of the United States.
However, this beneficial transfer failed to restore a strong alliance between the two countries.
France had essentially become a land power after the Battle of Trafalgar (October 1805), and was focusing on Europe; the USA was becoming an increasingly distant land.

The main enemy of the French, the United Kingdom eventually reverted to being the principal adversary of the United States, which also felt the repercussions of the Franco-European war.
The “War of 1812” was declared in 1812.
Engaged in Russia, Napoleon couldn’t see what advantage he could gain from the situation.
No alliance was thereby signed between the two countries.
The British were victorious initially and
managed to capture the capital, Washington.
A striking but little known fact is that they looted and burned the White House.
This blow and the disastrous French campaign in Russia dashed the hopes of an alliance even further.
Much weakened, France was defeated in 1814.
In contrast, the Americans rallied against the British and won a decisive battle in New Orleans in 1814.
This is the second time they would defeat the United Kingdom, but this time without France’s help.

The territory of the USA was growing to cover a vast area, and represented a place of exile for former soldiers of Napoleon in search of adventure.
Napleon’s older brother, Joseph, settled there, as did many French generals.
Some even attempted to establish a colony in Texas, which they called the “Champ d’asile”, the Field of Asylum.
But disease and hostility from the Native Americans forced them to abandon the project.
The survivors either returned to France, emigrated to South America or settled down elsewhere in the United States.
